---
layout: post
title: December 2024 HTA ESIG meeting - agenda 
categories: [SIG meetings]
author: Anders & Lara
---

## Date/time

03-December-2024 14:00-15:00 CET

## Agenda 

1.	Admin updates (10min)
    - ESIG leaders meeting (Anders/Lara)
    - 2025 meetings (Lara)
2.	Member/subteam/guest driven topic (30min) 
    - Report on October multistakeholder workshop - see page 14 [here](https://cirsci.org/wp-content/uploads/dlm_uploads/2024/04/CIRS-Research-Agenda-2024-v2.pdf) (Tina Wang)
    - Extrapolation topic for 2025 dissemination (conference/webinar) (Arthur)
3.	EU HTA â€“ info sharing and updates (15min)
    - EU HTA Stakeholder Network 29-Nov meeting update (Anders)
    - New guidance documents (all)
4.	Events and conferences (5min)
    - Webinars 2025 (need to input to PSI/EFSPI by year-end)
    - PSI 2025 HTA townhall session outline (Anders/Lara)
5.	AOB

## Updates from chairs

### Webinars 2025
Please consider ideas/topics for 2025 webinars. We need to input ESIG wishes to PSI/EFSPI before year-end.

### 2025 SIG targets + subteams going forward
At the January 2025 ESIG meeting (date pending), we'll align on 2025 targets for the HTA ESIG. We encourage you to start thinking about what would be good targets, including ideas and timing for webinars. Find inspiration in our [2024 targets](https://htaesig.github.io/about/)

We also plan to revisit the subteam overview at this meeting. The existing overview is in need of updating, and we want to use the opportunity to revisit how we can promote subteam work better in our ESIG.
