---
layout: post
title: February 2025 HTA ESIG meeting - minutes 
categories: [SIG meetings]
author: Anders
---

## Date/time
04-February-2025 13:00-14:00 CET

## Agenda

1.	Admin updates (5min)
2.	Member/subteam/guest driven topic (15min)
    - [Surrogate endpoint recommendations](https://www.nice.org.uk/news/articles/international-collaboration-provides-new-guidance-on-the-use-of-surrogate-endpoints-in-cost-effectiveness-analysis) and HTA SIG perspectives (Lara)
    - HTA ESIG active subteam overview (Milana)
3.	EU HTA – info sharing and updates (5min)
4.	2025 HTA ESIG targets (30min) (all)
5.	Events and conferences (5min)
6.  AOB

## 1. Admin updates

- PSI/Moore: MS Teams collaboration solution for SIGs
  - Access for all SIG members (Moore to manage access)
  - Opportunity for subteam collaboration spaces (channels/subchannels)
  - Go-live expected Q1 2025
  
  
## 2. Member/subteam/guest driven topic (15min)

### Surrogate endpoint recommendations (Lara)

- Whitepaper (NICE/CDA etc): Surrogate endpoints in cost-effectiveness analysis for use in health technology assessment
- HTA SIG perspectives - how can we operationalize statistically?
  - Subteam to put together overview: reach out to Lara
  - <mark>Action Lara: invite author(s) of whitepaper for SIG presentation</mark>
  - PSI webinar? Or both (we will target a local SIG presentation first - then revisit the webinar idea)

### HTA ESIG active subteam overview (Milana)

#### Why?
- Improve visibility/make it easier for members to find subteams aligned w/interests
- Will talk more subteams in 2025 target discussion

#### How?
- Asked for updates from the subteams that we *think* are active
- If we have missed a subteam, let us know!
- Subteam overview is [here](https://htaesig.github.io/subteams/)

### Next steps
- <mark>Action Milana: finalize the current subteam overview</mark>
- <mark>Action subteam leads: provide input to Milana on request about ongoing work</mark>


## 3. EU HTA – info sharing and updates (5min)

- 24 January webinar: [The EU HTA Regulation: Webinar for health technology developers of medicinal products](https://health.ec.europa.eu/events/eu-hta-regulation-webinar-health-technology-developers-medicinal-products-2025-01-24_en)
  - Limited new info
  - Mid-Mar: which dossiers/products 2025   
- Other things?
  - Consortium providing assessors [has been announced](https://htahag.eu/new-framework-contract-fwc-to-support-joint-clinical-assessments-and-joint-scientific-consultations-under-regulation-eu-2021-2282-on-health-technology-assessment-htar/)


## 4. 2025 HTA ESIG targets

### 2024 targets - which to carry over/update/delete?
- Targets from 2024 are [here](https://htaesig.github.io/about/)

- Related to SIG objective #1:
  - ✔ Deepen SIG dialogue around EU HTA readiness & strategic role of statisticians
- Related to SIG objective #2:
  - ✔ Review and comment on methods and procedural guidelines for HTA
  - (✔) Strengthen Social Media communication on HTA statistics/role of HTA statisticians
  - ✔ Successful ½d HTA addition to the EFSPI Regulatory Workshop 2024
- Related to objective #3
  - ✔ High SIG visibility at PSI 2024 and ISPOR EU
  - ✘ Publish 3 position papers pertaining to EU HTA
  - ✘ Strengthen relationship with ISPOR Statistical Methods SIG (Martin) & visibility of technical subgroups
  - ✔ Update HTA handbook
- Related to objective #4
  - (✘) Training course to be delivered 2025
  - ✔ ITC webinar + PICOs follow-up webinar

### Additional cosiderations

- How to strengthen the visibility of subteams and their work?
  - <mark>Action Anders/Lara: look into having an "around-the-table" across subteams throughout the year for an update about ongoing work</mark> 
  - Subteams are of course still very welcome to bring agenda points for ESIG meetings on an ongoing basis
- Subteam volunteers needed: PSI 2025 planning (townhall/lunch event/etc)
  - <mark>Action all ESIG members: please reach out to Anders if you can help</mark>
- Other subteams that we should consider
  - Surrogacy subteam? We will look more into this after we've had the presentation that Lara promised to arrange (see agenda point 2) 
- Anders: HTA training track will be important for the SIG
- Arthur: webinars is important - also, consider if subteams could provide a target/focus?

### Next steps
- There was limited feedback from the meeting attendees about which 2024 targets to carry over/update/delete
  - We will try a more asynchronous approach with a survey
- <mark>Action Anders: share survey with full ESIG</mark>
- <mark>Action all ESIG members: respond to survey or provide considerations directly to Anders/Lara</mark>

## 5.	Events and conferences (5min)

- PSI 2025 pushed 1 week (08-Jun to 11-Jun)

## 6.	AOB

- You can find the current overview of 2025 events of relevance to HTA statisticians in the [AOB of the January meeting minutes](https://htaesig.github.io/january-2025-hta-esig-meeting-minutes/)
