---
layout: post
title: March 2025 HTA ESIG meeting - agenda 
categories: [SIG meetings]
author: Anders, Lara, Milana
---

## Date/time

04-March-2025 13:00-14:00 CET

## Agenda 

1.	Admin updates (5min)
2.  2025 HTA ESIG targets (15min) (all)
2.	Member/subteam/guest driven topic (15min)
    - Strengthening the strategic role of HTA statisticians: Novo Nordisk (Anders/Milana)
3.	EU HTA â€“ info sharing and updates (10min)
    - What day-to-day challenges in JCA preparations are coming up - and how
4.	Events and conferences (10min)
    - PSI 2025 update (PSI subteam)
6.  AOB (5min)

## Updates from chairs

### 2025 targets

If you missed the results from our survey on 2025 targets, you can find them [here](https://htaesig.github.io/2025-esig-targets-survey-results/)

### Strengthening the strategic role of HTA statisticians: *XXX*

As part of a 2025 SIG focus on knowledge sharing, inspiring each other, and fostering innovative approaches to HTA statistical 
leadership while addressing common challenges,  we'll try to have a recurring topic where different SIG members share insights about the HTA 
statistics setup in their company. E.g.

- How early HTA statisticians are involved
- The impact of EU HTA on functions
- Reflections on opportunities and challenges 
- Etc.

Anders and Milana will kick things off by sharing insights into how HTA statistics is set up in Novo Nordisk. 

If you're willing to do a similar session, reach out to Lara or Anders

### EU HTA day-to-day challenges
In an email, Anna Wiksten brought up the discussion around the number of subjects/event needed for comparative subgroup analyses to make sense in EU HTA JCA.

This is one example of a "practical"" problem that may arise as companies engage in JCA preparations. Practical, in the sense that you need to decide
on a number to align with your stakeholders on, put in an SAP, and potentially defend towards assessors. It's also an example of an area where we could
consider if it's worthwhile to invest in communicating a SIG perspective.

At the March meeting, we want to discuss what other practical JCA problems we face or foresee - and where it may make sense to discuss or even disseminate best practices in the SIG.