---
layout: post
title: March 2025 HTA ESIG meeting - minutes 
categories: [SIG meetings]
author: Anders
---

## Date/time
04-March-2025 13:00-14:00 CET


## Agenda

1. Admin updates (5min)
2. 2025 HTA ESIG targets (15min) (all)
3. Member/subteam/guest driven topic (15min)
   - Strengthening the strategic role of HTA statisticians: Novo Nordisk (Anders/Milana)
4. EU HTA – info sharing and updates (10min)
   - What day-to-day challenges in JCA preparations are coming up - where is there a need for: discussion; subteam work; a 'shared voice'?
5. Events and conferences (10min)
   - PSI 2025 update (PSI subteam)
6. AOB (5min)


## 1. Admin updates (5min)

- PSI/Moore: MS Teams collaboration solution for SIGs next steps
  - Common/private channels?
  - What users need adding?
    - We'll test drive the PSI solution in a smaller group before we go ahead with collecting email addresses


## 2. 2025 HTA ESIG targets (15min) (all)

- [Results from survey](https://htaesig.github.io/2025-esig-targets-survey-results/)
- Anders walked through the results


### Proposed targets (for discussion)

1. Deepen SIG dialogue around (EU) HTA readiness & strategic role of HTA statisticians
   - **Continue activity:** EU HTA information/experience sharing recurring agenda point
   - **Start activity:** _'Strengthening the strategic role of HTA statisticians: company XXXX'_ recurring agenda point at SIG meetings
2. Strengthen visibility and impact of technical subgroups
   - **Start activity:** subgroup in spotlight agenda point (starting March)
3. Promote education and awareness about the importance and applications of HTA statistics
   - **Start/continue activity:** finalize HTA handbook and ensure progress on
   - **Continue activity:** host at least 2 webinars about HTA statistics

### Discussion
- Milana: revise wording on 1 to better reflect the ex-EU focus
  - Michael S/Shahrul: other areas of interest, e.g. Commonwealth HTA, nordic collaboration, south america etc
  - Anders/Lara: will look into ways to not let EU HTA overshadow, however, discussions about less well-known HTA developments are dependent on people driving from the SIG 
    - <mark>ACTION ALL </mark>: Reach to Anders and Lara if you have an ex-EU topic that you want to take up in the SIG
- Michael: focus on connecting to other SIGs, e.g. regulatory SIGs?
  - Anders/Lara: very relevant endevour that we would welcome - but again, need member(s) for driving it
- Ursula: PSI presence (could we have subject-matter focused meetup 1-1½h; Michael S echoed)?
  - Anders: definitely could do PSI meetup. Ursula was potentially willing to drive PSI meetup (provided focus on e.g. discussing/disseminating results from her survey about HTA Ops)
- Ursula:  EFSPI regulatory stats workshop, anyone from the SIG involved in scientific planning?
  - Anders: at December 2024 SIG meeting, [we encouraged SIG members to apply](https://htaesig.github.io/december-2024-hta-esig-meeting-minutes/) for the scientific committee (but we don't know if anybody did)

### Conclusion

- The targets try to strike the balance between providing direction, but also accounting for the limited total bandwidth of the SIG (so that we have a chance of reaching the targets)
  - <mark>Action all:</mark> If there's something missing that you are willing to also drive, we very much encourage you to reach out to Lara/Anders
- There will be a bit of wordsmithing to the draft above and the targets will go on the SIG webpage

## 4. Member/subteam/guest driven topic (15min)

- 2025 SIG focus on knowledge sharing, inspiring each other, and fostering innovative approaches to HTA statistical
  leadership
- Recurring topic _'Strengthening the strategic role of HTA statisticians: company XXXX'_ for SIG members to share about their HTA stats setup. E.g.
  - How early are you involved?
  - EU HTA impact?
  - Opportunities and challenges?
  - Etc.
- Kick-off: Anders and Milana/Novo Nordisk
  - Anders and Milana shared about the HTA statistics  at Novo Nordisk, including efforts to integrate the HTA statistics perspective into early
  evidence and trial design díscussions through the concept of the HTA Analysis Profile
  - Questions and discussion about: the responsibility split with HEOR; managing ITC work when vendors are involved at the SLR side
- We'll be approaching more SIG members in the coming months to share informally about how the HTA statistics setup is in their companies

## 3. EU HTA – info sharing and updates (10min)

*Agenda point postponed (not enough time)*

## 4. Events and conferences (10min)

### PSI 2025

- Subteam: Claire, Min-Hua, Lara, Anders
- Parallel collab session with historical data SIG on track
- Requested 'SIG at the bar' session 
  - Format TBD
- Closing townhall (_'Communicating about statistics and uncertainty in HTA'_)
  - Minor speaker challenges due to new dates - resolved? (Lara)
    - Not completely resolved but will be soon
  - Speaker call during March
- Contributed talks/posters?
  - We will follow up on this at next meeting
- SIG meetup - to be discussed, Ursula might be interested in helping drive something around dissemination/discussion of the HTA Ops survey that she has been working on

## 5. AOB (5min)

N/A (we ran out of time)