---
layout: post
title: April 2025 HTA ESIG meeting - agenda 
categories: [SIG meetings]
author: Anders, Lara
---

## Date/time

08-April-2025 13:00-14:00 CET

## Agenda 

1.	Admin updates (5min)
2.	Member/subteam/guest driven topic (35min)
    - Policy questions, intermediate endpoints & PRO's (20min/Anja Rettlebach MSD - guest speaker)
    - Update from training subteam (15min/Anna Wiksten)
3. SIG leadership model (15min/Anders + all)
4. AOB (5min)

## Updates from chairs

### Anders stepping down as co-chair + new leadership model

I (Anders) will be stepping down as co-chair of the HTA ESIG after the 06-May meeting. Co-chairing the SIG with Lara over the past couple of years has been a fantastic experience. 
However, I've reached a point where I can no longer dedicate the time the SIG deserves. Also, I think it's time to bring in some fresh perspectives to lead the group forward

Lara and I have discussed that would also be a good opportunity to revisit the overall leadership model for the HTA SIG - and source a fresh perspective on how to best drive what is one of the largest SIGs in PSI/EFSPI. 
One potentially attractive option would a be an annual or biannual rotational model, like seen in ISPOR interest groups. 
This could spread out the administrative workload while bringing in fresh perspectives and diverse expertise from across our membership.

At the April meeting, I hope to form a temporary subteam to draft a proposal for a new leadership model for endorsement at the May meeting. The subteam will also consider infrastructure setup to further streamline the chair/co-chair roles (email list management, information sharing, meeting invites etc).