---
layout: post
title: May 2025 HTA ESIG meeting - minutes 
categories: [SIG meetings]
author: Anders
---


## Date/time
06-May-2025 13:00-14:00 CET

## Agenda
1. Admin updates
2. Member/subteam/guest driven topic (25min)
   - SIG leadership model (10min Anders/Arthur/Katrin )
   - IQWiG methods paper Version 8.0 (15min/Christine)
3. EU HTA – info sharing and updates (20min)
   - Best practices PICO addressability (20min/MSD)
4. Events and conferences (10min)
   - PSI 2025 (10min/PSI 2025 subteam)
5. AOB (5min)
   - (Topic will be pushed to June meeting: HTA ESIG track to drive work on strengthening the evidence of correlation of non-OS endpoints (PROs) with PFS)


## 1. Admin updates 

- No admin updates due to busy agenda

## 2. Member/subteam/guest driven topic

### SIG leadership model (Anders/Katrin/Arthur)

#### Context
- Anders stepping down as co-chair
- Revisit SIG leadership model to:
  - spread out the administrative workload
  - while bringing in fresh perspectives 
  - and diverse expertise from across our membership.
  
#### Proposal
- SIG leadership consists of 3 people, for robustness and sharing of admin workload
  - Formal/internal roles: chair, chair-elect, incoming chair
  - Frame outwards simply as ‘co-chair’, with co-chairs deciding among themselves how to distribute responsibilities
- Each leader serves a 3-year term in total
  - Annual rotation: Chair steps down, Chair-Elect becomes Chair, Incoming Chair becomes Chair-Elect, we recruit a new Incoming Chair
  - Rotation example:
  - Year 1: A (Chair), B (Chair-Elect), C (Incoming)
  - Year 2: B (Chair), C (Chair-Elect), D (Incoming)
- Benefits:
  - Continuity: Always have an experienced Chair
  - Fresh perspectives: New leader joins annually
  - Mentorship: Chair guides Chair-Elect, who then guides Incoming Chair

#### Transition to new model
- Katrin and Arthur will replace Anders as co-chair, effective today 06-May
  - **BIG** thanks to Katrin and Arthur for taking this on!
- Linking with long-term model 
  - Lara will have the role as ‘Chair’
  - Katrin and Arthur will step in to fill ‘Chair-elect’ + ‘Incoming’ roles
- First election end 2025:
  - Lara to step down, one of Arthur or Katrin taking on a chair role (-> serving until end 2026), the other the chair-elect role (-> serving until end 2027)
- Details around new model etc will be developed by the new SIG leadership trio

### IQWiG methods paper version 8.0 (Christine)

- Christine walked through the updates in the new IQWiG methods paper
  - [Click here](/downloads/2025-05-06-may-2025-hta-esig-meeting-iqwig-methods-v8-christine-presentation.pdf) to download Christine's presentation 

## 3. EU HTA – info sharing and updates (20min)

- Lara introduced the next topic and speaker (Dave from MSD), framing the opportunity to HTA ESIG and EFSPI drive a broader discussion around how to ensure that we address PICOs with small-n P's in a statistically and scientifically meaningful way
- Dave Gelb shared MSD efforts on the topic *Small PICOs: How should they be handled within the EU HTA context*
  - Dave and Larry Leon from MSD have come up with a flowchart-type approach to deciding the extent of analysis appropriate for a given PICO
  - The branching in the flowchart accounts for quantitative assessment of when results are statistically meaningful
  - Discussion  following Dave's presentation:
    - Assessors will still need a place to "hang their hat" if we're not providing statistics, what should that be?
    - To which extent are PICO addressability flowchart TA-dependent? Trial-size dependent? Etc
    - It's a good target for cross-company collaboration (- even though it may be difficult to get broad buyin, it's an important discussion starter, and as a community we can still drive awareness/help with environment shaping
    - It can also be useful input to redaction discussions (redact in situations where not statistically meaningful/where data privacy considerations due to inadvertent subgroup disclosure)
- A subteam was established to look more into this topic, with a cross-company view
  - Subteam: Dave, Milana, Min-Hua (<mark>Action all:</mark>: reach out to Dave or Milana if you're interested in joining)
  - Anders also mentioned that this would be a nice topic to take to EU HTA Stakeholder Network meetings

## 4. Events and conferences
### PSI 2025
- PSI 2025, London, 8-11 June
  - Who will be there?
    - Michael S, Ursula, Grammati, Katrin, Lena S, Jens, Anders, Lara, Claire put their name in the chat
    - <mark>Action all:</mark> others coming to PSI/anyone that we missed? Let Anders know. 
    - <mark>Action Orlando:</mark> setup a Whatsapp group for HTA ESIG/PSI 2025
- Presentations (Anders will put an overview on the SIG site)
  -  HTA SIG engagement Tuesday lunch
  -  Parallel session: _Evidence synthesis. Squaring the circle: bridging innovation with application_ (Anders + Min-Hua + others)
  -  SIG session: _SEE-ing the Future: Empowering Health Decisions through Structured Expert Elicitation_ (collab HTA SIG/historical data SIG - Min-Hua + others)
  -  HTA townhall: _No easy answers: communicating about statistics and uncertainty in Health Technology Assessment_ (Maricarmen Climent + Nick Lattimer)
  -  Posters?
    - <mark>Action all:</mark> Let Anders know if you have posters 
  -  Other HTA-relevant sessions?
    - <mark>Action all:</mark> Let Anders know if there are other HTA-relevant sessions that we should flæag

## 5. AOB 
- EFSPI Statistics Leaders Meeting coming up (12th May) https://www.efspi.org/, we will report back on this at next SIG meeting
- (Topic will be pushed to June meeting: HTA ESIG track to drive work on strengthening the evidence of correlation of non-OS endpoints (PROs) with PFS)