---
layout: post
title: April 2025 HTA ESIG meeting - minutes 
categories: [SIG meetings]
author: Anders
---


## Date/time
08-April-2025 13:00-14:00 CET

## Agenda

1.	Admin updates (5min)
2.	Member/subteam/guest driven topic (35min)
    - Policy questions, intermediate endpoints & PRO's (20min/Anja Rettlebach MSD - guest speaker)
    - Update from training subteam (15min/Anna Wiksten)
3. SIG leadership model (15min/all)
4. AOB (5min)


## 1. Admin updates (5min)

- PSI/Moore: MS Teams collaboration solution for SIGs next steps
  - Test run Anders/Milana
  - Barebones Teams with a channel + files
  - Exploring with Moore if they can support e.g. meeting invites for SIG meetings

## 2. Member/subteam/guest driven topic (35min)

- Update from training subteam (15min/Anna Wiksten)
  - [Click here](/downloads/2025-04-09-april-2025-hta-esig-meeting-training-subteam-presentation.pdf) to download Anna's presentation 
  - Discussion:
    - Important to ensure that the prep work, logistics etc for those teaching is managable
    - Consider doing something like the Visualization SIG's Wonderful Wednesdays in 2026 (contingent on an autumn 2025 pilot being succesful)?
    - For training for non-HTA statisticians, important to clarify what the SIG adds that vendors can't (in particular, need to ensure diverse speakers for such an event)
    - <mark>Action Anders:</mark> follow up with PSI on webinar options including for a training track, loop in Anna
- Policy questions, intermediate endpoints & PRO's (20min/Anja Rettlebach MSD - guest speaker)
  - Lara presented Anja's slides
  - <mark>Action all:</mark> Is there an interest in driving an HTA ESIG track to drive work on strengthening the evidence of correlation of non-OS endpoints (PROs) with PFS?
    - Could be an opportunity to get behind EFPIA initiatives + connect company needs/our day jobs with SIG/cross-company work
    - Katrin mentioned the cross-company SAVVY efforts as a potential inspiration
    - Will take the topic up again at next meeting to assess whether we can have a subteam on this

## 3. SIG leadership model (15min/all)

- Anders stepping down as co-chair effective 06-May (after next meeting)
- Opportunity to revisit the leadership model and source fresh perspectives
  - Rotational leadership (ISPOR style)?
  - How to best deal with admin aspects of SIG leadership?
    - Email list management
    - Meeting invites
	- SIG comms
  - Lara: supportive of rotational model, don't switch out both chairs from the get-go to ensure continuity
  - Katrin: consider having maybe 3 people to distribute work
- Temporary subteam to bring recommendations for May SIG meeting
 - Arthur, Katrin, Anders. Anders will set up a meeting.


## 4. AOB (5min)
- Lara: please note that the 'Additional documents' section of the "Guidance on filling in the JCA dossier template" 
 have been updated to also include a 'structure folder for HTD dossier' - available here https://health.ec.europa.eu/publications/guidance-filling-joint-clinical-assessment-jca-dossier-template-medicinal-products_en